## Weekly summaries of "**Doing Science: from Start to Finish**"
- **Week 1** (Oct 3rd, 2016): Dr. Rivera-Mariani, the students, Physics Teacher, and the Librarian participated of the first meeting. In this meeting, we got to know each other: students presented themselves as well as Dr. Rivera-Mariani, Mrs. Noble, Ms. Pérez, and the school's principal. Students also were assigned their first homework: *to submit their workshop's expectations* [find them here](https://github.com/friveramariani/DoingScienceWorkshops/tree/master/DoingScinece_from_start_to_finish/students_expectations). Through a [text-mining algorithm](https://github.com/friveramariani/DoingScienceWorkshops/blob/master/DoingScinece_from_start_to_finish/Students_Expectations_TextMining.R) developed by Dr. Rivera-Mariani, we'll familiarize with the students' expectations and at the same time help to adapt the workshop's goals. These expectations are also linked to a [homework 2](https://github.com/friveramariani/DoingScienceWorkshops/blob/master/DoingScinece_from_start_to_finish/homework2_hypothesis.md), which was assigned to the students during week 2 (October 24th, 2016). Find week 1 presentation [here](https://github.com/friveramariani/DoingScienceWorkshops/blob/master/DoingScinece_from_start_to_finish/Doing_Science10032016.pdf). 

- **Week 2** (Oct 24th, 2016): The students were presented the learning goals of the workshop (find them above), and differentiated between the linear and simple scientific method and the **real** scientific method used in the scientific community. Students also began to understand and synthesize the first three phases of the scientific method: *the question, the background research, and the hypothesis*. [Homework 2](https://github.com/friveramariani/DoingScienceWorkshops/blob/master/DoingScinece_from_start_to_finish/homework2_hypothesis.md) was assigned (to develop a hypothesis), which will be discussed in week 3. 

- **Week 3** (Oct 31st, 2016): The students practiced applicating the criteria for good scientific questions, purpose, and hypothesis: **being specific, being testable, and being falsifiable (in the case of the hypothesis)**. The students also evaluated if a question, *"How long does it take to go through each room of the Thomas Armstrong high school without exiting from the same door entered"*, can be examined through a question or hypothesis. As a final exercise, students evalauted if the following hypothesis meets the criteria of a good hypothesis for the question *"What are the most frequent words among the students expectations' of the Doing Science workshop?*": **The students expectations' of the Doing Scinece workshop will contain words that are in the title of the workshop.** The students then evaluated if the approach used by Dr. Rivera-Mariani to test the hypothesis meets all the criteria. 
